.TH PASSCHECK 1 PASSCHECK
.SH NAME
passcheck - passphrase strength evaluator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR passcheck
.IR "" [ OPTION ]...\ <
.IR PASSPHRASE_LIST
.SH DESCRIPTION
Evaluates the strength of passphrases based.
All passphrases are given a non-negative integer rating.
.PP
The output is formatted so that it is suitable for
piping into \(aqsort -rn\(aq to sort passphrases by strength.
.PP
300 is a good threshold for strong passphrases,
.br
200 is a good threshold for acceptable passphrases.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r ,\  \-\-raw
Treat escape sequences as part of the passphrases.
If not used, ANSI escape sequences are ignored.
.TP
.BR \-w ,\  \-\-waste-ram
Loads the blacklist into RAM and creates a hash set
of it. It is unreasonable to do this unless you have
the process running indefinitely and (somewhat)
continuously feed passphrases. Note that this
requires a lot of RAM.
.SH RATIONALE
Passphrase-strength meters used on the Web use horrid
heuristics and does not even blacklist the most common
passphrases. We need better passphrase-strength meters
to keep users safe.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR correctpony (1),
.BR autopasswd (1),
.BR sort (1),
.BR john
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(passcheck)\(aq
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the COPYING file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2013, 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to m@maandree.se
